Working rename of the ililithids, is a portmanteau of parasite and naus root for boat or ship. Naus is also old gothic for corpse. I like this idea of connecting ship to body. connecting the need for a host. 

This is the common name the people of the land use.

Though much is lost to the annuals of history the Paranaus were the third child of the progenitor Dragon. In myth and legend they are spoken of as the jealous ones. They were jealous of the mighty forms their siblings took and instead of coming up with their own form or even being inspired by their siblings the Paranaus in the deep dark of the world learned to take the bodies of others. 

The life cycle of the paranaus starts as a larva resembling the mix of a hagfish and a octopus or squid. The majority of Paranaus continue their lives in this form growing into a larger form, living in extremely large colonies that feed and support their breeding mother, living for several years, not much more than 5 and never 10 years or more. In this form they are simple if still malicious and cunning predators/ scavengers. 

However the paranaus larva has a incredible ability to latch onto a animal and quickly it spreads through the nervous system of the animal and starts to rewrite the animal's biology. The primary example of this is with the paranaus breeding mothers. these are gigantic leviathans covered in thousands upon thousands of paranaus, that have rewritten the giant whales biology to instead of being a gentle and peaceful creature to serve as a birthing vessel for the paranaus. These breeding mothers are surrounded by the colony that take care of the young and the breeding mother in much of the same relationship as a queen ant. 